# Return a transition matrix from a BirdFlowR model

This function retrieves a transition matrix from a BirdFlow object,
possibly calculating it from a marginal.

## Usage

``` r
get_transition(x, transition)
```

## Arguments

- x:

  A BirdFlow object

- transition:

  A transition code, e.g. "T_01-02"

## Value

A transition matrix

## Details

`get_transition()` will construct a transition matrix from the marginals
if `x` doesn't have transitions, or return the relevant stored
transition matrix if it does.

The format for a transition code is "T\_\[from\]-\[to\]" where \[from\]
and \[to\] are timesteps padded with zeros. Direction is important;
"T_03-04" represents a transition backward in time.

The transition matrices are structured such that you multiply the matrix
by the distribution to project either forward or backwards. If more than
one distribution is projected at once they should be stored in columns
of a matrix with
dimensions([`n_active()`](https://birdflow-science.github.io/BirdFlowR/reference/dimensions.md),
[`n_distr()`](https://birdflow-science.github.io/BirdFlowR/reference/dimensions.md)).

Given a marginal in which the cell \[i, j\] represents the probability
of the bird being in state i in the prior timestep and state j in the
next, to generate the forward transition matrix we divide each row of
the marginal by its sum and then transpose. Backwards transitions
matrices are generated by dividing each column by its sum, without
transposing.

## See also

[`lookup_transitions()`](https://birdflow-science.github.io/BirdFlowR/reference/lookup_transitions.md)
will generate a list of the transitions needed to predict or route
between two points in time that can then be passed to this function. The
internal function
[`transition_from_marginal()`](https://birdflow-science.github.io/BirdFlowR/reference/transition_from_marginal.md)
does the calculations.
